Part 2 : EC2, IAM, Security Groups, EBS, AMI, Load Balancer, Target Groups & Health Checks

1. Why did you choose ec2 instead of lambda function
A: I choose ec2 because i needed a persistent linux server where i can install docker, do monitoring,nginx, cloudwatch agent. AWS lambda is serverless and best for 
   short running event driven functions whereas my application needs continuous execution

2. What is EC2?
A: Its a server provided by amazon. Its elastic cloud compute. It allows us to launch instances which can be configured with OS, CPU, memory,storage and networking

3. Explain your ec2 setup
A: I launched ubuntu ec2 with vpc. i connected using ssh using keypair. I installed docker, nginx, cloned the config files from github, built the docker image, ran 
   the flask application inside the docker container. I then configured nginx as reverse proxy and registered the instance with a load balancer

4. Explain your project request flow
A: User --> Application load balancer (divides traffic btwn healthy instances) --> EC2 --> Nginx (acts as reverseproxy, get request to port 80 and then forards 
   the requests to port 5000 for flask application running inside docker container )--> Docker container --> Flask 

5. What is keypair, security group, iam ?
A: Key pair: it has 2 keys : public and private key, AWS stores the public key and we have the private key. when we try to login aws validates the public key with     
   our private key and then allows us to login to server
   Security group: It acts a virtual firewall to our ec2. it controls the traffic and allows it based on the port we give access to.
   IAM : it controls the authentication and authorization in aws. it allows secure access to aws resources using users, roles, groups and policies.

6. Diff between sg and nacl?
A: Security group --> for instance level, only allow rule, stateful, easy to manage
   NACL --> subnet level, allow and deny rules, stateless, little difficult to control
    Stateful means If an inbound request is allowed, the response traffic is automatically allowed without creating an outbound rule
    
7. Diff between iam user, group, role, policies?
A: Users --> individual identity
   group --> collection of users
   role --> temporary permission to aws services
   policies --> json document defining permissions

8. Why use iam role instead of access keys
A: IAM roles provide temporary credentials that aws rotates automatically. This is more secure than embedding the access keys in the ec2

9. What permissions did your ec2 need?
A: cloud watch for monitoring, s3 for backups

10. What is ebs volume? whats the diff between ebs and s3?
A: ebs --> elastic block storage, it provides storage for the ec2. it acts like a virtual hard disk. in my project, os, docker images, application files, logs
   were stored in ebs
   diff --> ebs: block storage, attached through ec2, boot volume
            s3 : object storage, accessed through api's, backup storage

11. Diff between ebs and instance storage?
A: ebs --> attached to ec2 so persistent, survives reboot
   instance storage--> temporary, lost when instance is stopped

12. what is ami? why did you create ami for your project?
A: ami --> amazon machine image, its used to create ec2. it contains snapshots of the os, application inside it, ebs , and installed softwares
   i created ami for my project so that i can launch another ec2 with same configuration so that i can attach a load balancer to both the ec2's. i did it so that
   i can reduce manual effort by doing everything again

13. Diff between ami and snapshot
A: ami --> complete machine template, used to launch ec2, includes boot configuration.
   snapshot --> backup of ebs volume, used to restore storage, storage only

14.What is launch template and why to use a launch template?
A: launch template definies how we create an ec2, it includes name, os, instance type, sg, key pair, storage.
   we create it because: Instead of manually creating EC2 instances each time, the Auto Scaling Group uses the Launch Template to launch identical instances
   automatically

15. What is ALB and why do we use it?
A: ALB --> application load balancer is used to divide the incoming traffic between ec2's. it only distributes traffic between the healthy ec2's. 

16. Diff between Alb, nlb, classic lb
A:  ALB	   NLB	Classic LB
   Layer 7	Layer 4	Layer 4/7 (legacy)
   HTTP/HTTPS	TCP/UDP	Basic support
   URL-based routing	Very high performance	Older generation
   Web applications	Low-latency services	Legacy applications

17. what is target group?
A: it is a collection of backend resources like ec2 that recieves traffic from load balancer, it runs health checks to determine whether instances should recieve
   requests or not

18. what is health checks and which health checks did you configure?
A: health checks verify periodically if the application is responding correctly or no. if a health check fails then the lb stops sending traffic to it
   i configured http protocol for port 80

19. why did your target group become unhealthy?
A: possible reasons --> nginx service stopped, flask application stopped, docker container stopped, wrong port configured, sg blocked traffic

20. You recieved a 502 bad gateway error. what to do?
A: 502 error means nginx cannot connect with backend application
   Check : if docker container stopped(shows exited when we give docker ps -a), check flask logs (docker logs <container_id), verify flask listens on 
   port 5000 (ss -tulpn), restart nginx if required

21. you recieved a 503 service unavailable error, what to do?
A: 503 error means no healthy target groups in the alb
   steps : check tg health, verify is ec2 is running, check sg rules, verify that application is running

22. Your ALB is healthy, but the application doesn't load. What do you check?
A: is nginx running? is docker container running? is flask responding locally ( curl localhost://5000), is sg allowing traffic, is alb and tg configured correctly?

23. ec2 suddenly crashes. what to do?
A: check if the health checks are marked healthy or unhealthy. if ec2 crashes then alb stops sending traffic to it. because instance has a auto scaling group 
   connected to it, based on the desired capacity the asg launches a new ec2 with our ami. once health checks are passed requests are sent to the new ec2.

24. why didnt you expose port 5000 publicly?
A: port 5000 is used internally by flask application. users access the application through nginx on port 80, which provides security and reverse proxy option
